Review of the rewrite (#51)
britram/rains-prototype: draft-trammell-rains-protocol.md

System. However, it does take several radical departures from DNS as presently
defined and implemented:

- Delegation from a superordinate zone to a subordinate zone is done solely with
  cryptography: a superordinate defines the key(s), created by the subordinate,
  that are valid for signing assertions in the subordinate during a particular
  time interval. Assertions about names can therefore safely be served from any
  infrastructure.
- All time references in RAINS are absolute: instead of a time to live, each
  assertion's temporal validity is defined by the temporal validity of the
  signature(s) on it.
- All assertions have validity within a specific context. A context determines
  the rules for chaining signatures to verify validity of an assertion. The
  global context is a special case of context, which uses chains from one or

>   several global naming root key(s). The use of context explicitly separates

Reviewer: As far as RAINS itself is concerned (in this document) there's one global root; the split root belongs in the rains-scion doc. Will fix after merge.

Author: rolled back

- Subject: A name or address about which Assertions can be made.
- Object: A type/value pair of information about a name within an Assertion.

> - Singular Assertion: A mapping between a Subject and one or several Objects,

Reviewer: We still need a definition of "Assertion" as a superclass of these.

Author: It is described after all Sections are introduced. Should we move it up

A naming service should impose as little structure on the names it supports as
practical in order to be universally applicable. Naming services that impose a

> given organizational structure on the names will not translate well to societies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
given organizational structure on names will not translate well to societies
```

Authority issuing it must return the same result for every Query for it,
regardless of the identity or location of the querier.

This property is not provided by DNS, as it depends on the robust support of the
Explicit Inconsistency property above. Examples of global invariance failures
include geofencing and DNS-based censorship ordered by a local jurisdiction.

### Availability

The naming service as a whole is resilient to failures of individual nodes
providing the naming service, as well as to failures of links among them.

> Intentional prevention of a successful answer to a query by an adversary should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intentional prevention by an adversary of a successful answer to a query should
```

| 16   | reserved        | Reserved for future use                                |
| 17   | query-keyphases | All requested key phases of a Query                    |
| 19   | reserved        | Reserved for future use                                |
| 20   | assertions      | Singular Assertion content of a Shard or Zone          |
| 21   | note-type       | Notification type                                      |
| 22   | note-data       | Additional notification data                           |
| 23   | content         | Content of a Message or a P-Shard                      |

The information model is designed to be representation-independent, and can be
rendered using alternate structured-data representations that support the
concepts of maps and arrays. For example, YAML or JSON could be used to
represent RAINS messages and data structures for debugging purposes. However,
signatures over messages and assertions need a single canonical representation
of the object to be signed as a bitstream. For RAINS, this is the CBOR
representation canonicalized as in {{c14n}}; therefore alternate representations
are always secondary to the CBOR data model. An alternate representation

> designed for textual manipulation of RAINS data is described in {{zonefiles}}.

Reviewer: No it isn't; this was removed.

an infrastructure key (see {{obj-infrakey}}) for the RAINS Server originating
the message.

The value of the capabilities key, when present, is an array of Capabilities or
the hash thereof. The first Message sent from one peer to another MUST contain
the capabilities key. The capabilities mechanism is described in
{{capabilities}}.

> 

Reviewer: Where did these go?

Author: I moved it up where the other Message elements are mentioned

- the subject context, as in {{assertion-context}}, identifying the context for
  purposes of explicit inconsistency.

The types of Objects that can be associated with a Subject are described in
{{obj-types}}.

There are four kinds of Assertions, distinguished by their scope (how many
Subjects are covered by a single Assertion) and their utility (whether the
Assertion can be used for positive proof of a Subject-Object association, for
negative proof of the lack of such an association, or both):

- Singular Assertions contain a set of Objects associated with a single given
  subject name in a given zone in a given context. The signature on a Singular
  Assertion can be used to prove the existence of an association between the
  subject name and the Objects within the Assertion. Singular Assertions are
  described in detail in {{singular-assertions}}.
- Zones contain all Singular Assertions that have the same zone and context
  values. The signature on a Zone can be used to prove both the existence of an
  association between a subject name and an Object, as well as the absence of
  such an association. Zones are described in detail in {{zones}}. If signed,

>   the Singular Assertions within a Zone can also be treated as Singular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the Singular Assertions within a Zone can also be used on their own, as if they were contained within a Message directly; ```

>   Assertions; in this case they inherit zone and context information from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 in this case they inherit zone and context information from the
```

  containing zone.
- Shards contain Singular Assertions for every Object associated with every
  subject name in a given lexicographic range of subject names within a given
  zone in a given context. The signature on a Shard can be used to prove the
  nonexistence of an Object for a subject name within its range. Shards are

>   described in detail in {{shards}}. If a Singular Assertions within a Shard is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  described in detail in {{shards}}. If a Singular Assertion within a Shard is
```

name within a zone. P-Shards serve the same purpose, but offer only a
probabilistic guarantee of the non-existence of a name. Specifically, as they
are based on Bloom filters, a subject name which does not in fact exist may
appear in the P-Shard; in return for this uncertainty, they offer a much more
space-efficient way to demonstrate the non-existence of an Object for a subject
name within the zone and context than Shards do. There is a tradeoff between the
size of the bit string storing the Bloom filter, the number of Assertions
covered by the P-Shard, and the false positive error rate. The zone Authority
can determine how to weight them.

A P-Shard is represented as a CBOR map. This map MUST contain the signatures
(0), subject-zone (4), context (6), and content(23) keys. It MAY contain the
range(11) key.

The value of the signatures (0) key is an array of one or more Signatures as
defined in {{signatures}}. The signatures on the P-Shard are to be verified
against the appropriate key for the Zone for which the P-Shard is valid in the
given context.

The value of the subject-zone (4) key is a UTF-8 encoded string containing the

> name of the zone in which the Singular Assertions in the P-Shard are made and

Reviewer: overcorrection

```suggestion
name of the zone within which the names represented in the P-Shard are contained, and
```

MUST end with '.' (the root zone).

The value of the context (6) key is a UTF-8 encoded string containing the name

> of the context in which the Singular Assertions in the P-Shard are valid. Both

Reviewer: The P-Shard doesn't contain Singular Assertions, it contains a Bloom filter against which names and objects can be checked. Rework this.

Author: True, my bad...

the authority-part and the context-part MUST end with a '.'.

The value of the range (11) key, if present, is a two element array of strings
or nulls (subject-name A, subject-name B). A MUST lexicographically sort before
B. If A is null, the P-Shard begins at the beginning of the zone. If B is null,
the P-Shard ends at the end of the zone. The P-Shard MUST NOT be used to check

> the existence of any Singular Assertions whose subject names are equal to or

Reviewer: overcorrection

```suggestion
the existence of Assertions about subject names equal to or
```

| 2     | bloom-km-4   | KM-optimized bloom filter with nh=4        |
| 3     | bloom-km-8   | KM-optimized bloom filter with nh=8        |

The bloom-km-2, bloom-km-4 and bloom-km-8 datastructures generate a bitstring
using a Bloom filter and the Kirsch-Mitzenmacher optimization
{{BETTER-BLOOM-FILTER}}.

> To add or verify a Singular Assertion to a bloom-km structure, the Singular

Reviewer: it's not a singular assertion, it's a name with an object.

Assertion is first encoded as a four-element CBOR array. The first element is
the subject name. The second element is the subject zone. The third element is
the subject context. The fourth element is the type code as in {{tabobj}} in
{{obj-types}}. This encoded object is then hashed according to the specified
hash algorithm. The hash algorithm's output is then split into nh equal length
parts (2 for bloom-km-2, 4 for bloom-km-4, 8 for bloom-km-8), and these parts
are used as indexes into the bitstring modulo the bitstring length. To add the

> Singular Assertion, all bits at the given indices are set to 1. To verify the

Reviewer: see above.

Singular Assertion, all bits at the given indices are checked, and the Singular
Assertion is taken to be in the filter if all bits are 1.

> [EDITOR's NOTE CFE: This is not how it is described in the km-paper 

Reviewer: to discuss

(https://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~michaelm/postscripts/rsa2008.pdf)]

### Dynamic Assertion Validity {#assertion-dynamics}

For a given {subject, zone, context, type} tuple, multiple Singular Assertions
can be valid at a given point in time; the union of the object values of all of
these Singular Assertions is considered to be the set of valid values at that
point in time.

### Semantic of nonexistence proofs {#antiassertions}

Shards, P-Shards and Zones can all be used to prove nonexistence during their

> validity. However, real naming systems are dynamic: a Singular Assertion might

Reviewer: this is overcorrection: here, you actually should say Assertion.

```suggestion
validity. However, real naming systems are dynamic: an Assertion might
```

|    3 | ee   | End-Entity Certificate           |

A trust anchor certificate constraint specifies a certificate that MUST appear

> as the trust anchor for the certificate presented by the subject of the Singular

Reviewer: This is stylistic; it's not important to note the singularity of the assertion here. 

```suggestion
as the trust anchor for the certificate presented by the subject of the 
```

Assertion on a connection attempt. An end-entity certificate constraint

> specifies a certificate that MUST be presented by the subject of the Singular

Reviewer: likewise
```suggestion
specifies a certificate that MUST be presented by the subject
```

> Assertion on a connection attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on a connection attempt.
```

Hash algorithms are used in several places in the RAINS data model:

- hashing certificate data in cert-info objects (see {{obj-cert}})

> - hashing Singular Assertions into Bloom filters and check if a Singular

Reviewer: singular assertions are not contained in p-shards, see above.

- Render the element to be signed into a canonical byte stream as specified in
  {{c14n}}.

> - Generate a signature on the resulting byte stream according to the algorithm,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generate a signature on the resulting byte stream according to the algorithm
```

>   keyspace and key phase selected.

Reviewer: signature is not dependent on keyspace and keyphase.

```suggestion
selected.
```

To generate a canonicalized Shard:

- sort the objects array in each Singular Assertion contained in the assertions
  array as, above.
- sort the assertions array by lexicographic order of the serialized
  canonicalized byte string representing the assertion. Note that this will

>   cause the subject array to be sorted in lexicographic order of subject name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cause the assertions array to be sorted in lexicographic order of subject name,
```

  as well. [EDITORS's NOTE CFE What is the subject array?]
- sort the CBOR map by ascending order of its keys ({{tabmkey}}).

To generate a canonicalized Zone:

- sort the objects array in each Singular Assertion contained in the assertions
  array as, above.
- sort the assertions array by lexicographic order of the serialized
  canonicalized byte string representing the assertion. Note that this will

>   cause the subject array to be sorted in lexicographic order of subject name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  cause the assertions array to be sorted in lexicographic order of subject name,
```

To generate a canonicalized Message:

> - preserve the order of the Sections (Assertions, Queries and Notifications)

Reviewer: What is the value of this change? The intended meaning is that the order of Sections within a Message is significant; adding types of sections sounds, to me, like the intention is to order sections by type?

Author: We never state what a 'Section' is. Better define it properly when we introduce Messages and remove my additions here

| URN                | Meaning                                                |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| urn:x-rains:tlssrv | Listens for TLS/TCP connections (see {{transport-tls}} |

A RAINS server MUST NOT assume that a peer server supports a given capability
unless it has received a message containing that capability from that server. An
exception are the capabilities indicating that a server listens for connections
using a given transport protocol; servers and clients can also learn this

> information from RAINS itself (given redirection and service-info Singular

Reviewer: stylistic: singularity is unimportant here.

```suggestion
information from RAINS itself (given redirection and service-info 
```

## Transport Bindings {#transport}

> This document so far defines one transport binding for RAINS: TLS-over-TCP in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines one transport binding for RAINS: TLS-over-TCP in
```
